# Identify-a-Car-Model-with-Deep-Learning
Explore how to practice real world Data Science by collecting data, curating it and apply advance Deep Learning techniques to create high quality models which can be deployed in Production.
## Data
There are 4000 images of two of the popular cars (Swift and Wagonr) in India of make Maruti Suzuki with 2000 pictures belonging to each model. The data is divided into training set with 2400 images , validation set with 800 images and test set with 800 images. The data was randomized before splitting into training, test and validation set.
<br>The data was collected using a web scraper written in python. Selenium Library was used to load the full HTML page and then Beautifulsoup library was used to extract and download images from HTML tags
<br> The data is hosted at [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/ajaykgp12/cars-wagonr-swift) which can be dowloaded or you can also create a notbeook directly on Kaggle and acess th data in you notebook
## Context
Data science beginners often start with curated set of data, but it's a well known fact that in a real Data Science Project, major time is spent on collecting, cleaning and organizing data . Also domain expertise is considered as important aspect of creating good ML models. Being an automobile enthusiast, I took up this challenge to collect images of two of the popular car models from a used car website, where users upload the images of the car they want to sell and then train a Deep Neural Network to identify model of a car from car images. In my search for images I found that approximately 10 percent of the cars pictures did not represent the intended car correctly and those pictures have to be deleted from final data.
